# Recording Android and iOS experiences
Spectator View supports filming HoloLens experiences with mobile devices. All mobile recording functionality is enabled through screen capture; however, the associated logic varies across platforms.
- On Android, a custom [ScreenRecorderActivity](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/Plugins/Android/ScreenRecorderActivity.java) has been defined and wrapped by the [AndroidRecordingService](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/AndroidRecordingService.cs).
- On iOS, the [iOSRecordingService](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/iOSRecordingService.cs) has been constructed based on Apple's [ReplayKit](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/replaykit) component.
>Note: On Android, recorded content is always saved to a file; whereas on iOS, recorded content is saved to a temporary file that must be manually saved by the user.

### Application Flow
On start, the [SpectatorView](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/SpectatorView.cs) MonoBehaviour checks whether recording is enabled through [MobileRecordingSetting](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/MobileRecordingSettings.cs)'s "Enable Mobile Recording Service" flag. If said flag is enabled, the declared [IRecordingServiceVisual](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingServiceVisual.cs) prefab is created in the Unity scene. The [IRecordingServiceVisual](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingServiceVisual.cs) is then handed a reference to the [IRecordingService](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingService.cs) associated with the current mobile platform. User interactions with the [IRecordingServiceVisual](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingServiceVisual.cs) can then use this reference to start and stop recording as well as open videos for viewing.

### Custom IRecordingServiceVisuals
SpectatorView supports specifying a custom prefab for starting and stopping recording. To do this, create a prefab containing an Unity component that implements [IRecordingServiceVisual](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingServiceVisual.cs). Then, specify this prefab as the 'Override Mobile Recording Service Visual' in the [MobileRecordingSettings](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/MobileRecordingSettings.cs) declared for the scene (To view these settings, press Spectator View -> Edit Settings in the Unity toolbar). When the application starts, the [SpectatorView](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/SpectatorView.cs) MonoBehaviour will instantiate this prefab. It will then search for an [IRecordingServiceVisual](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingServiceVisual.cs) in the created prefab to provide a reference to the [IRecordingService](../src/SpectatorView.Unity/Assets/SpectatorView/Scripts/ScreenRecording/IRecordingService.cs).

# Recording DSLR experiences

coming soon...
